Refine release policy (#286)
chanzuckerberg/cell-census: docs/cell_census_storage_and_release_policy.md

# Cell Census data storage & release policy

**Last edited**: March, 2023.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED" "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [BCP 14](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp14), [RFC2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt), and [RFC8174](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174.txt) when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

## Definitions

* **Cell Census build**: a SOMA collection with the Cell Census data [as specified in the Cell Census schema](https://github.com/chanzuckerberg/cell-census/blob/main/docs/cell_census_schema.md#data-encoding-and-organization). 

> * **Cell Census source h5ads**: the set of h5ad files used for create a Cell Census build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Cell Census source H5AD files**: the set of H5AD files used to create a Cell Census build.
```

> * **Cell Census release**: a Cell Census build that is officially and publicly hosted online.

Reviewer: one might ask "what does 'officially' mean?"; perhaps clarify by referencing below sections, otherwise just remove?

* **Cell Census release `tag`**:  a label for a Cell Census release, it MUST be a string of printable ASCII characters.

## Cell Census release policy

### Long-term supported Cell Census release

* It MUST be created and made available for public access every six months. 
* Its date of publication MUST be used as the `release_date` (see [below](#Cell-Census-release-information)). 
* All data from CELLxGENE Discover hosted at the `release_date` that meets the requirements [according to the schema](https://github.com/chanzuckerberg/cell-census/blob/main/docs/cell_census_schema.md#data-included) MUST be included in it.
* It MUST be available for public access for at least 5 years upon `release_date`.

### Weekly Cell Census release (latest)

> * It MUST be created and made available for public access every week on Mondays except for CZI holidays.

Reviewer: I would make this `SHOULD`, if that's reasonable. I figure either we're fully automating it, in which case holidays don't matter (barring build failures), or we should be less strict about exactly when it appears: e.g. "once per week, best effort"

* Its date of publication MUST be used as the `release_date` (see [below](#Cell-Census-release-information)). 
* All data from CELLxGENE Discover hosted at the `release_date` that meets the requirements [according to the schema](https://github.com/chanzuckerberg/cell-census/blob/main/docs/cell_census_schema.md#data-included) MUST be included in it.

> * It MUST be deleted the following Monday and after the next weekly Cell Census release is published.

Reviewer: Again, I think SHOULD is more appropriate, or even MAY

## Cell Census data storage policy

The following S3 bucket MUST be used as the root to store Cell Census data:

`s3://cellxgene-data-public/`

> Cell Census data MUST deposited under a folder named `cell-census` of the root S3 bucket:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cell Census data MUST be deposited under a folder named `cell-census` of the root S3 bucket:
```

Technically "folder" is "prefix", but this is interpretable as is.

Could combine the above two bullets

 
 `./cell-census`
 
All data related to a Cell Census **release** MUST be deposited in a folder named with the **tag** of the release:

 `./cell-census/[tag]/`

The Cell Census **release** MUST be deposited in a folder named `soma`:

`./cell-census/[tag]/soma/`

All Cell Census **source h5ads** used to create a specific Cell Census **release** MUST be copied into a folder named `h5ads`:	
`./cell-census/[tag]/h5ads/`

> ## Cell Census release information `json`

Reviewer 2: If it matters, I intended it to be an implementation artifact *only*, and be replaced at a later date by an API surface.  This is why the API contains routines to access the same info, rather than just telling people to fetch the file.
